 (Feb.25.1998) Quake II v3.12 to v3.13 Update Patch
 --------------------------------------------------

 NOTE: This patch IS NOT COMPATIBLE with your current saved games! DO NOT
       install this patch if you MUST be able to resume previously saved
       games!

 This patch will upgrade you from v3.12 to v3.13. Please note, you should
 have downloaded the point release (q2_312.exe), prior to using this patch.

 Please run q2_312to313.exe and extract the contents to the root of your
 Quake II directory.

 Changes since v3.10
 -------------------

 NOTE: This information was not made previously available, and is included
       here to document modifications since v3.10

Fixed qhost support code.  We were using the wrong threading API.

No longer report WSAEADDRNOTAVAIL on IP broadcasts since some PPP drivers
will fail them with this error.

Added cvars gl_3dfx_no_gamma, gl_particle_min_size, gl_particle_max_size,
gl_particle_size, gl_particle_att_a, gl_particle_att_b, gl_particle_att_c

Fixed a bug in Sys_Milliseconds that would cause what appeared to be a system
freeze.  It was really just frozen for 65 seconds.

Fixed a bug in Sys_ScanForCD due to NT and Win95 interpreting the parameters
to GetDriveType differently.

Added Win95 specific screen saver detecion code

Changed the interface on the video menu a bit

Fixed a crash in ref_soft that happened when firing weapons under certain
circumstances.  For example, if you had r_drawentities set to 0.

Fixed a bug that caused clients to not be able connect sometimes when the
server was changing levels.

Reimplemented macro expansion where appropriate

Fixed console redirection for rcon

Moved chat functionality in to the game dll

Added coop play including savegame support.  This brought about a major
rework of the savegame code.

Added code to make sure coop and deathmatch always have consistant values

Moved player model sounds in to the same directory as everything else so the
models, sounds, and icons are all in one place now.  The male sounds are used as a fallback if a model has no sounds of its own.

Added glquake type shadows.  There are definitely issues with them, but some
people really like it.

Removed duplicate copies of the vertex normals table.

Latched cvars are now changed immediatly if a server is not active.

The cvar game is now latched instead of write protected.  We're treating it
much like quakewold did to automatically set it when you connect to a CTF server.  When it does change video and sound systems are restarted to flush the caches.  It's fairly fast since you aren't in a game at the time.

Fixed so it will check for pak0 through pak9 instead of starting at pak0 and
stopping when it gets a miss.  This was keeping people who had done a minimum
install from seeing the pak1 for the DM levels.

Fixed an out of band message overflow crash.

Commented out printing of "using previous origin"

Game API changes required bumping version to 3.

Network protocol changes required bumping version to 31.

Added client side support for various mission pack #1 and CTF effects

Added ability for game dll to temporarily disable client prediction; used for
grappling hook

Reworked sound code for model specific sound support.

Made key binding check on inventory screen case insensitive

Changed setenv command to let you see an environment variables value without
changing it

Added code to clear all pallete effects when disconnected

Added fixedtime to the cheatvars list

Rewrote client side code for model and skin parsing so CTF can enforce team
skins.  No more cross dressers!

Added CTF scoreboard

Added an offset to client beams to make grapple work better

Added a slew of gross hacks to fix problems in various maps, mostly dealing
with coop issues

Added fixed FOV support for those that consider it cheating (off by default)

Added quad dropping (like in QuakeWorld) to turn them into targets

Fixed monsters in coop ignoring the last player

Fixed mask for monsters checking for a clear shot to have windows block

Made sure everything in hard is in hard+ skill

Fixed insane guys getting mad at the player

Fixed team determination code

Added invnextw, invprevw, invnextp, and invprevp to allow cycling through
only weapins or powerups

Fixed "give ammo #" to be absolute instead of addative

Fixed "give <item>" to work as if it has just been picked it up instead of
just stuffing it in the inventory

Enabled dropping for single player and coop

Added weaplast command to switch back to your previous weapon

Fixed it so you can only suicide once every 5 seconds

Added a "players" command that lists all the players in the game in the
console

Added a "score" command to bring up the scoreboard.  This was needed since in
coop you have both help and a score.  DM still shows the scores if you do
help.

Limited max negative health to prevent wrapping and other printout oddities

Changed monster pain reaction code for coop so they don't cycle among
multiple players shooting at them

Fixed a bug that let monsters run around with a ducked bounding box

Fixed teamplay scoring

Fixed a crash with teamed rotating doors

Fixed inadvertant weapon switch when picking up ammo

Resassigned sound channels for power armor sounds so they don't get lost

Preserved power armor state across levels

Fixed picking up power armor when you had active power armor was deactivating
it

Reworked a bunch of code related to keys for coop

Replaced some hard numbers with defines so mod authors know what they are for

Fixed bad frame message; it was trying to animate dead bodies

Fixed monster combat points checking self instead of other when trying to not
allow swimming and flying monsters from being held

Removed test code and variables that were unused and just taking up space

Stopped dead monsters from screaming in pain

Fixed a bug in testentity position that was not using the entities clip mask.  This was allowing monsters to pass through objects sometimes.

Added password so you can have a private server again

Added a server command interface; see the game dll source for details

Fixed help computer for coop

Fixed target_changelevel allowing being activated when the player is dead in
single player

Fixed target_changelevel was checking other instead of activator in DM

Fixed switched lasers that had been off were not causing damage

Fixed crash in the body que code

Fixed some sounds that were sent to PVS instead of PHS

Fixed monsters were becoming non-solid at the wrong time

Fixed monsters don't go into pain in skill 3.

Fixed soldiers were playing wrong pain sounds

Added death messages (obituaries).  This was done the right way; it always
knows what killed you (directly killed you).  There are even some fun
sub-cases tracked like a direct rocket hit vs a near miss.  I'm tracking 32
distinct causes of death right now as well as if it was due to friendly fire.
The messages are gender correct too.  I didn't do anything to modify them for
powerups.

Made dead players gibbable

Added a hook in the game dll for IP banning.

cleaned up comments to help mod authors know what's going on a little better

Fixed help computer to show when skill is 3

Stopped armor number from flashing when in god mode or invulnerable

Stopped player playing pain sounds when in god mode or invulnerable

Fixed falling damage so you are no longer saved by steep slopes

Stopped switching to a weapon when you already have one in inventory

Stopped switching to super shotgun or bfg10k when you don't have enough ammo
